---
layout: post
title:  Everyday
date:   2015-09-18 9:45:12
categories: life
comments: true
---

What do you want to achieve in life?  Do you work on it everyday?  I sure don't, an in fact I find it to be very difficult.  I work hard on things, but those things tend to change quite frequently.  When I sit back and think about my life I noticed that there isn't one thing that I consistently worked on.  Software development is probably the closet thing that I have worked on consistently for the last 20 years.  But everyday? ...no way!

As I studying people who I admire, this daily work theme keeps popping up.

Why is working on something every day so hard? Because most of us aren't working on things that truly excite us. I was listening to an interview with Will Smith the other day, and he said something along the lines of: It doesn’t matter what it is, just pick something, and relentlessly pursue it.

We often lack effort, which is why we don't achieve our weight loss goals, or our career goals, or our financial goals, or whatever.  Eventually, I get tired or distracted and then I start to chase something else.

So as I understand it, I need to work hard on something everyday and in order to do that, I need to find something that really drives me.  Something that pulls me out of bed in the morning, makes me lace up my shoes and push through the pain.  Push through the exhaustion, push through the tricks that my mind will play.

So yes, working on something everyday is very difficult, but working hard on something that you are passionate about has been a great source of joy in my life.  I makes the present moment so full of energy that life slows down, and success in the present begets success in the future.

Working on the idea is what is important. It will change, it will fail, it will grow, it will shrink, and over time it will get better and better. It may not end up the way you intended, but who cares, the work is what begets success. If you want to be successful, pick an idea, project, habit, etc, that you are passionate about, and work on it everyday.
